now to the war in Ukraine and the
growing pressure on Israel from its
closest allies over a deadly attack on
an aid Convoy US Secretary of Defense
Lloyd Austin has urged his Israeli
counterpart to take concrete steps to
protect Aid workers and Palestinian
civilians and called for a quick and
transparent investigation Australia's
prime minister Anthony albanesi has
criticized Israel's explanation for the
attack an Australian citizen was among
the seven people killed in the Israeli
strike on the vehicles carrying Aid
workers from the world Central Kitchen
NGO uh we need to have accountability
for how it's occurred and what isn't
good enough is the statements that have
been made including that uh this is just
a product of war the founder of world
Central Kitchen has accused Israel of
systematically targeting his workers
when it carried out the strike Israeli
Prime Minister Benin Netanyahu said the
workers were killed unintentionally
the incident has prompted World Central
Kitchen to suspend its operations in
Gaza where Palestinians are desperate
for food and other necessities several
other relief organizations have also now
stopped supplying Aid in the Gaza Strip
this comes as rights groups say Gaza is
inching towards
famine Israel launched its invasion of
Gaza following the October 7th attacks
inside Israel by Hamas which some
countries regard as a terrorist
organization
transporting the bodies of Aid workers
they were killed in an Israeli air
strike while overseeing the delivery of
food Aid in
Gaza the us-based NGO released the names
and photos of Palestinian Australian
British polish and US Canadian staff
killed in the
attack the remains of six were taken out
of Gaza to Egypt to be repatriated to
their home countries
the founder of the charity World Central
Kitchen said the Convoy was targeted
systematically one car after the
other they were targeting hands in at
the conflicting Zone in an area
controlled by IDF them knowing that was
our teams moving on that route seven
seven people dead um but there are seven
on top of a least of more than another
190 humanitarian workers that they've
been killed the last 6 months Israel's
government said it regrets the incident
and promised to ensure it would not
happen again but its conduct in the war
has come under mounting criticism not
just abroad but also at home tens of
thousands have taken to the streets in
anti-government protests Benny guns a
member of Israel's three man War cabinet
and prime minister Benjamin netanyahu's
main rival is now calling for new new
elections to be held later this
year I believe that the Israeli Society
needs to renew its contract with its
leadership and I think the only way to
do it and still maintaining the national
effort in fighting Hamas and terrorist
group and other security challenges is
by having an agreed election date that
we have to discuss when and if the early
election proposed would have to be
backed by the majority of Israel's
parliament where families of hostage
held in Gaza continue to
protest